[Music]
this episode of basics with babish is
sponsored by good and gather new
products only at Target good and gather
is target's flagship grocery brand
bringing shoppers high quality
ingredients to create better tasting
food for you and your family shop good
and gather at your local Target store or
online here once you have gathered all
your good it's time to start making pie
and the first thing we got to make when
we make pie is a pie crust and I'm going
to take a page out of rough puff
pastry's book and make it using a food
processor first thing we're doing is
combining ten ounces of all-purpose
flour with one teaspoon of kosher salt
and we're gonna dump that into our food
processor with the blade attachment
attached and just pulse a few times to
make sure that everybody is good and
combined then it's time to negotiate the
butter for which I'm going to use the
grating attachment once that's spinning
I'm just going to press two sticks of
Thoroughly frozen unsalted butter
through the feed tube and into our flour
mixture which I'm then going to turn out
into a bowl for easier combination give
that a little toss to make sure that all
the butter is coated in flour and then
we're going to start adding our ice
water and this is where you kind of have
to feel out the recipe I personally
added 16 tablespoons of ice water but
that amount is going to depend on a
thousand different factors pi is
famously finicky when it comes to
moisture basically just want to keep
adding the water slowly and mixing the
dough together until it just starts to
hold its shape turn it out onto a work
surface and gently knead it into one
cohesive mass don't worry if it looks a
little dry and crumbly because the flour
will continue to hydrate in the fridge
which is exactly where this thing is
headed for at least 30 minutes we want
every aspect of the pie crust to stay as
cold as possible for as long as possible
up until baking then once it's wrapped
up in plastic we're gonna Pat it out
into a thick round disc that's gonna
make rolling out easier down the line
keeping the butter cold is what's gonna
give us those pastry like layers later
on so do not skip these steps 30 minutes
later our pie dough is nice and firm and
not only will you notice that it has
hydrated nicely but you'll see that it's
dabbled with little bits of butter that
is exactly what we wants and now it's
time to roll this guy out and divide
this in half for two reasons first so we
can take a look at those layers of
butter and second because I'm making a
double pie crust so
half of the stone putting it back in the
fridge as we negotiate the bottom or
shell of our pie first on a well floured
work surface that I'm gonna reflowing as
necessary I'm gonna roll this guy out to
a diameter one to two inches wider than
my pie plate you can see that because I
divided my dough in half after the fact
this guy's coming out a little oblong a
little amoeba-like
I'm just gonna patch my weirdness but
you can prevent this by dividing the
dough and a half before refrigerating as
always I'm very happy when you can learn
from my mistakes
so once we've got this guy rolled out to
our desired specifications we're gonna
use the rolling pin to lift it up off
the countertop like so and transferred
over to are awaiting pie plates yet
another grandma trick brought to you by
Grandma babish then instead of pressing
the pie dough into the corners we want
to lift and drop it into the corners we
don't want to stretch the pie dough we
also want to make sure that the dough is
generously hanging over the sides of the
plate this will become important later
on after this guy takes another
30-minute rest in the fridge now one of
the problems with double crusted pies is
people generally think you can't blind
bake them an essential step for
preventing soggy bottom syndrome but as
you can see we're doing just that we're
lining the pie dough with aluminum foil
and filling with deep pie weights of our
choice I'm using brown rice baking in a
400 degree fahrenheit oven for 12 to 15
minutes until just turning lightly Brown
afterwards we're gonna take it out of
the oven remove the foil and docket
which just means poking lots lots and
lots and lots and lots of little holes
in the bottom using a fork then this
guy's going back in the oven for another
seven to nine minutes until a little
more golden brown during which time
we're going to figure out our filling
double crusted pie to me just screams
apple so we got 3 pounds of Honey Crisp
apples here you could also use Granny
Smith which we are going to
painstakingly peel I'm gonna do vu peel
it all in one ribbon to prove that I'm a
real man way and then I'm going to cut
the Apple flesh off the core and slice
into half-inch pieces once that's all
done we're placing them into a very
large bowl for tossing purposes if your
apples are gonna sit out for a minute
make sure you toss them with a little
squeeze of lemon juice that's gonna
prevent them from turning brown not that
matters if they're ending up in a pie
but it's still a neat trick plus a
little lemon juice tastes good in the
pie along with the following 3/4 of 1
cup of sugar 2 to 3 tablespoons of
all-purpose flour depending on how gooey
you like your pie the zest of one of our
previously squeezed lemons a good pinch
of kosher salt 1/2 teaspoon of freshly
grated nutmeg 1/2 teaspoon of ground
ginger a full teaspoon of
and the tiniest little sprinklings of
allspice and ground cloves all of which
we were going to tiny whisk together
separately from the apples before
pouring over top and tossin make sure
the apples are all evenly coated in the
mixture and that's it that's apple pie
filling pretty easy right now we got to
finish prepping our pie crust so set
these aside and wash your hands our
bottom half of the pie crust is at the
oven so we're gonna let it cool just a
little bit work it a few times with a
fork to deflate any puff ups and then
we're gonna start trimming off the
excess pie dough around the
circumference you will see why in a
moment but let's take an early look at
what's happening to our pie dough look
at those layers look at that flake look
at those bubbles boy I love to bake and
now the moment we've all been waiting
for or at least I have filling the pie
shell and preparing for it to reach its
final form we've rolled out the other
half of our pie dough to the same
thinness and with unfurling it over the
apples making sure that it's evenly
distributed trimming off any excess and
starting to tuck it in gently underneath
the par baked crust
once that's done all there is left to do
is cut a couple vents in the top you can
do this however you like but if you want
the apples to be able to breathe and
then we're brushing the whole thing down
with a beaten egg white and sprinkling
the whole thing down with a few generous
pinches of granulated sugar this is
gonna give the top half of our pie that
crunchy shiny shell we're looking for
then it's going into our 425 degree
fahrenheit oven for anywhere from 35 to
50 minutes until our pie looks just like
a pie but don't you dare dig into this
this needs to cool for at least 4 hours
just enough time to make some other pies
how about we make some pumpkin for this
one I'm going bottom crust only which
means we need to be a little bit more
decorative with our pie crust so after
lifting and dropping the dough into the
corners of the pie plate we're going to
trim off any excess right to the edge of
the pie plate hang on that's perfectly
good for decoration that I'm probably
not going to do and then we are fluting
the edge of the pie crust which
basically just means placing your finger
and thumb on the crust and pressing the
dough up between them repeating around
the circumference of the crust until you
have achieved a de quart of pattern and
just like all our other pie crusts this
guy needs to rest in the fridge for at
least 30 minutes after which we can
blind bake it as before we're gonna line
it with aluminum foil fill it with our
pie weights pop it in a 400 degree
fahrenheit oven for 12 to 15 minutes
until lightly browned removing the pie
weights docking like crazy and then
baking for another 7 to 9 minutes until
lightly browned now let's talk pumpkin
into a large bowl goes half a cup each
granulated sugar and light brown sugar a
tablespoon of flour a pinch of kosher
salt a half teaspoon each of Grande
ginger ground allspice and freshly
grated nutmeg a little sprinkling of
cloves a teaspoon of cinnamon and a few
twists of freshly ground pepper and
that's it mix up until homogeneous and
you've got yourself an easy delicious
pumpkin pie feel I feel like I'm
forgetting something a pumpkin I've got
one can of pumpkin puree here too which
I'm going to add 3 eggs 1 cup of heavy
whipping cream and give that a little
cursory mix if you like maybe use a
bigger bowl I don't know this is my way
of living dangerously I guess and then
embrace your basic side because we're
adding our homemade pumpkin pie spice
mix until completely homogeneous taste
for tastiness I'm gonna add a little
glug of maple syrup I think that's gonna
work nicely and then pour the mixture
into our blind baked crust then this
guy's headed into a 400 degree
fahrenheit oven for 45 to 55 minutes now
sometimes your crust can Brown too fast
I'm taking this out right now at about
25 minutes and to prevent it from
burning I'm going to wrap the edges in a
thin strip of aluminum foil making sure
not to cover the pie filling but making
sure that the edges of the crust are
protected another 20 minutes later and
the pie emerges from the oven perfectly
browned and to prevent the pie from
cracking you want to take it out of the
oven when the filling is only set around
the outside 2 inches the center should
still be wobbly now like the apple pie
we're gonna let it cool completely
before digging in yeah yeah you gotta
just enough time to make another pie how
about my favorite blueberry you can of
course use fresh blueberries but frozen
turns that just as well in a pie and all
you got to do is let them defrost and
drain for a while while those are doing
their thing in a small bowl we're going
to combine 1/2 a cup of sugar a quarter
cup of corn starch and the zest of one
lemon this as you can imagine is both
going to sweeten and thicken our
blueberry filling so let's mix them all
together probably the easiest pie
filling and pie filling history and for
this one why do we go a little crazy and
make ourselves a lattice pie which
sounds intimidating but is a lot easier
than you think first we just got to take
the top half of our dough and roll it
out into a large rectangle which we are
going to cut into 10 equally sized
strips or 16 if you're not very good at
measuring things like me and we're gonna
made it to a pie crust that we have not
blind-bake but we have refrigerated just
make sure you're baking all these pies
on a preheated pie stone to prevent a
soggy bottom into our pie shell goes the
blueberry mixture and then we're gonna
in lets ik we're gonna start by laying
five strips evenly and parallel to one
another across the top of the pie one in
the center to each to the right and left
easy right then all's we got to do is
lift up two of these strips and snake
another strip in underneath them
perpendicular then we're gonna lay those
two strips back down on top of the new
strip and now we're gonna repeat the
process this time with three strips that
we didn't pull back last round you see
where I'm going with this we're
basically just alternating which strips
we lift up while we lay down the
perpendicular strip underneath and then
we're just gonna trim the edges tuck
them underneath the bottom crust nice
and tight and there you have it a
lattice pie easier than you think
we are likewise going to brush this down
with egg white and sprinkled it with
granulated sugar for that Sheen and this
one we're gonna bake at 400 degrees
Fahrenheit for 30 to 45 minutes until
deeply golden-brown and bubbling with
berry goodness and I'm sorry to say just
like the other pies it's got a cool
completely at least four hours before we
can tuck in but once it is cooled off we
got some cold hard evidence that we have
no soggy bottoms in the house these are
coming right out of their pie plates
holding their shape and not leaking all
over the place and as you can see I
slightly over bakes my pumpkin pie and
it cracks but that is easily remedied
with a little bit of whipped cream well
there you have it folks it's pie season
and hopefully this video has given you
some new tools to keep in your arsenal
of pie tips and tricks this episode of
basics with babish is sponsored by good
and gather at the new flagship grocery
brand only at Target as I'm sure you've
noticed almost all the ingredients I use
to make these pies were good and gather
products
I can now attest to good and gathers
taste first approach all products are
formulated without artificial flavors
synthetic colors artificial sweeteners
and high fructose corn syrup they use
high quality ingredients that certainly
make for better tasting pies and I can't
wait to try other good and gather
products and future recipes if you're
wondering where you can get your hands
on good and gather items fret not the
new line is launching this fall and will
roll out new products throughout 2020
they even have ready-made items that
provide shortcuts in the kitchen so if
you don't have tons of free time or make
a cooking show for a living but still
want amazing tasting ingredients targets
good and gather products definitely have
something just for you to see all of
what good and gather has to offer visit
your local Target store or shop online
here